dozer-log-js/README.md, before:

# dozer-log-js

**dozer-log-js:** Node.js binding for reading Dozer logs

This project was bootstrapped by [create-neon](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-neon).

## Installing dozer-log-js

```sh
npm install @dozerjs/log
```

## Usage

Assume your Dozer home directory is `.dozer` and you have an endpoint named `trips`. You can read the Dozer logs in Node.js as follows:

```javascript
const dozer_log = require('@dozerjs/log');

const runtime = dozer_log.Runtime();
reader = await runtime.create_reader('.dozer', 'trips');
console.log(await reader.next_op());
```

## Building dozer-log-js

If you have already installed the project and only want to run the build, run:

```sh
npm run build
```

This command uses the [cargo-cp-artifact](https://github.com/neon-bindings/cargo-cp-artifact) utility to run the Rust build and copy the built library into `./index.node`.

## Running dozer-log-js example

After building dozer-log-js, you can run dozer-log-js example with:

```sh
npm run build
node examples/reader.js
```

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm install`

Installs the project, including running `npm run build`.

### `npm build`

Builds the Node addon (`index.node`) from source.

Additional [`cargo build`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/commands/cargo-build.html) arguments may be passed to `npm build` and `npm build-*` commands. For example, to enable a [cargo feature](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.html):

```bash
npm run build -- --feature=beetle
```

#### `npm build-debug`

Alias for `npm build`.

#### `npm build-release`

Same as [`npm build`](#npm-build) but, builds the module with the [`release`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/profiles.html#release) profile. Release builds will compile slower, but run faster.

### `npm test`

Runs the unit tests by calling `cargo test`. You can learn more about [adding tests to your Rust code](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch11-01-writing-tests.html) from the [Rust book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/).

## Project Layout

The directory structure of this project is:

```text
dozer-log-js/
├── Cargo.toml
├── README.md
├── index.node
├── package.json
├── src/
|   └── lib.rs
└── target/
```

### Cargo.toml

The Cargo [manifest file](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html), which informs the `cargo` command.

### README.md

This file.

### index.node

The Node addon—i.e., a binary Node module—generated by building the project. This is the main module for this package, as dictated by the `"main"` key in `package.json`.

Under the hood, a [Node addon](https://nodejs.org/api/addons.html) is a [dynamically-linked shared object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_(computing)#Shared_libraries). The `"build"` script produces this file by copying it from within the `target/` directory, which is where the Rust build produces the shared object.

### package.json

The npm [manifest file](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json), which informs the `npm` command.

### src/

The directory tree containing the Rust source code for the project.

### src/lib.rs

The Rust library's main module.

### target/

Binary artifacts generated by the Rust build.

## Learn More

To learn more about Neon, see the [Neon documentation](https://neon-bindings.com).

To learn more about Rust, see the [Rust documentation](https://www.rust-lang.org).

To learn more about Node, see the [Node documentation](https://nodejs.org).

Commit message:

feat: Serve replication log on internal grpc server (#1722)
* feat: Use replication log in dozer app

* feat: Serve replication log on internal grpc server

* feat: Cache builder read log from internal grpc server

* fix: Avoid duplicate persisting of log entries

* feat: Support replication `LogRequest` timeout

* feat: Batch request and preload log in the log reader

* fix: Fix log existence check in `needs_migration`

* chore: Fix cloud build

* chore: Fix test

* fix: Log watcher is not triggered on timeout until an op arrives

* fix: Add `dozer-log-python` and `dozer-log-js` back

* feat: API server reads schema from APP server instead of home dir

* fix: Fix `dozer-log-js` and the log related examples

dozer-log-js/README.md, after:

# dozer-log-js

**dozer-log-js:** Node.js binding for reading Dozer logs

This project was bootstrapped by [create-neon](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-neon).

## Installing dozer-log-js

```sh
npm install @dozerjs/log
```

## Usage

Assume your have Dozer running and the app is listening to `http://127.0.0.1:50053`, and you have an endpoint named `trips`. You can read the Dozer logs in Node.js as follows:

```javascript
const dozer_log = require('@dozerjs/log');

const runtime = dozer_log.Runtime();
reader = await runtime.create_reader('http://127.0.0.1:50053', 'trips');
console.log(await reader.next_op());
```

## Building dozer-log-js

If you have already installed the project and only want to run the build, run:

```sh
npm run build
```

This command uses the [cargo-cp-artifact](https://github.com/neon-bindings/cargo-cp-artifact) utility to run the Rust build and copy the built library into `./index.node`.

## Running dozer-log-js example

After building dozer-log-js, you can run dozer-log-js example with:

```sh
npm run build
cd ..
node dozer-log-js/examples/reader.js
```

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm install`

Installs the project, including running `npm run build`.

### `npm build`

Builds the Node addon (`index.node`) from source.

Additional [`cargo build`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/commands/cargo-build.html) arguments may be passed to `npm build` and `npm build-*` commands. For example, to enable a [cargo feature](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/features.html):

```bash
npm run build -- --feature=beetle
```

#### `npm build-debug`

Alias for `npm build`.

#### `npm build-release`

Same as [`npm build`](#npm-build) but, builds the module with the [`release`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/profiles.html#release) profile. Release builds will compile slower, but run faster.

### `npm test`

Runs the unit tests by calling `cargo test`. You can learn more about [adding tests to your Rust code](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch11-01-writing-tests.html) from the [Rust book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/).

## Project Layout

The directory structure of this project is:

```text
dozer-log-js/
├── Cargo.toml
├── README.md
├── index.node
├── package.json
├── src/
|   └── lib.rs
└── target/
```

### Cargo.toml

The Cargo [manifest file](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html), which informs the `cargo` command.

### README.md

This file.

### index.node

The Node addon—i.e., a binary Node module—generated by building the project. This is the main module for this package, as dictated by the `"main"` key in `package.json`.

Under the hood, a [Node addon](https://nodejs.org/api/addons.html) is a [dynamically-linked shared object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_(computing)#Shared_libraries). The `"build"` script produces this file by copying it from within the `target/` directory, which is where the Rust build produces the shared object.

### package.json

The npm [manifest file](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json), which informs the `npm` command.

### src/

The directory tree containing the Rust source code for the project.

### src/lib.rs

The Rust library's main module.

### target/

Binary artifacts generated by the Rust build.

## Learn More

To learn more about Neon, see the [Neon documentation](https://neon-bindings.com).

To learn more about Rust, see the [Rust documentation](https://www.rust-lang.org).

To learn more about Node, see the [Node documentation](https://nodejs.org).
